Consider our example again,
suppose that n was 16 rather than 100.
Then our test statistic remains the same.
It's the sample mean minus
the hypothesis me, mean.
Remember,we're testing H0 mu equal to 30.
Versus Ha mu greater than 30.
And then divided by the standard
error of the mean where now,
where we have square root 16 rather than
square root 100, if you recall s was 10.
This test statistic,
how many estimated standard errors from
the hypothesised mean, the sample mean is.
Follows a t distribution with 15 degrees
of freedom in this specific case.
So under the null hypothesis
the probability that is larger
than the 95th percentile
the t distribution is 5%.
So we need to calculate that fifth
percentile of the t distribution,
this can be done with qt 0.95 and
15 degrees of freedom which
works out to be 1.7531.
Our test statistic, if we actually plug in
the 10 in our x bar of 32,
works out to be 0.8.
And so we're failing to reject
because 0.8 is smaller than 1.75.
Let's also go through a two-sided test.
Suppose that we wanted to re,
reject the null hypothesis if in fact
the mean was too large or too small.
This doesn't make a lot of sense in our
specific scientific setting, because we're
specifically interested in whether or not
thi, this particular population of obese
subjects had a respiratory disturbance
index, larger than 30 or reference value.
However, it's often the case,
that in scientific settings, a two-sided
test is demanded, regardless of whether or
not it makes scientific sense.
So it's, it's important to understand
how to do two-sided tests, and
the fact that there are some instances
where you are mandated to deal
with two-sided tests,
even though it doesn't necessarily make
that much sense to
consider the other side.
So we want to reject, in this case,
if we were to do a two-sided test,
we want to reject whether or
not mu is different from 30.
So in other words,
we'll reject if our test statistic
is either too large or too small.
In this case,
because our test statistic is positive,
we only need to consider the large side.
What does change however,
is in order to get that 5% in
a way that allows our test statistic to be
too large or too small, we need to split.
The probability is 2.5% in either tail of
the distribution, be it the t distribution
for small sample sizes, or
the z distribution for large sample sizes.
So now, instead of qt at 0.95,
we're going to get,
do qt at 0.975 with, again,
with 15 degrees of freedom.
And so we want to reject if our
test statistic is larger than this.
Right, so let me draw an example
of our t distribution.
This will be the point qt 0.975,
with 15 degrees of freedom
would be 2.5% in that tail.
And this is the point Q T .025
with 15 degrees of freedom.
And that's 2.5% in that tail.
That point right there.
So we're going to reject if our test
statistic is larger than this guy, or
smaller than this guy.
However, because the lower quintile is
the negative of the positive quintile,
we can always say that's the same thing
as taking the absolute value of our test
statistic and
rejecting if it is too large.
That point is made right here.
So, in this case,
we've failed to reject the one-sided test.
And now in this slide we're showing that
we failed to reject the two sided test.
However, I think you'll
probably already noticed,
that because we've moved further out
into the tails of t distribution
with our rejection region, that if
you fail to reject the one sided test
that then you will also have failed
to reject the two sided test.
Usually we don't calculate the rejection
region and perform the hypothesis test
in the formal manner in which we've gone
through in the slides by hand, instead,
we usually pass the data
to a function like t.test.
And it outputs all the relevant
statistics for us,
for us to understand what's
going on with the text.
What's interesting is we
already know how to do this,
because we've used t.test in order
to perform confidence intervals.
We just haven't gone through the output
to understand what it's doing for a test.
Let's look at, in the using R package,
the data father.son.
And we'd like to test whether
the population of son's height was
equivalent to the populat,
population mean of father's heights.
Now, the observations here were paired.
It was one son's measurement to one
father's measurement, and so on.
So its in this case we're
going to take the difference and
we want to test whether
the difference in the heights is 0 or
its non zero, we do that with t.test.
And you can either pass the difference
directly to the function t.test,
or you could pass it, the two vectors,
and then add the argument,
paired equals true.
It gives you your t statistic right here,
11.79.
It gives you your degrees of freedom,
right here, 1,077.
So we had e, exactly 1,078 pairs
that we took the difference of.
Now, 11 is a quite large t statistic, so
we reject the null
hypothesis in this case.
Also notice that the degrees
of freedom are quite large so
the distinction between a t-test and
a z-test in this case is irrelevant.
It very nicely gives us the t confidence
interval, automatically when we do t.test.
It's useful almost always to look at
the confidence interval in addition to
the output of the test.
Simply because the confidence interval
bridges this gap between statistical
significance and
practical significance quite nicely.
You can see whether the range of
values in the confidence interval
are of practical significance or
not, because it's expressed in the units
of the data that you're interested in.